---
title: Why User Experience is Important for Websites?
date: "2019-03-04T23:46:37.121Z"
categories: ["blog","websites"]
---

According to Garrett (2011) “… we interact with countless products and services every day, we easily forget that they are made by people and that someone, somewhere should get the credit when they work well for us—or get the blame when they don't” (p. 3). Indeed, in case of surfing on a website, the users might feel comfortable, convenient and even sometimes leave good feedback when they have what they need from the website. This being said, some might get angry and never come back again if they feel worse experience from it. Those good and bad experiences of users or visitors from the websites have a brief name User Experience or UX. And User Experience is now the essential design to do with any public websites because of requirements for improving productivity, improving user satisfaction and reducing support and maintenance costs.

Working hard to have a good User Experience on the products will improve the productivity. Before that, spending time to have done conjunctly step by step from ideas, strategies to final products, “… helping people work faster and helping them make fewer mistakes” (Garrett, 2011, p. 15). In addition, “the enhanced interactive design produced more positive affect, emotion, and higher ratings …” (Sutcliffea & Hartb, 2017, p. 234). The ideas mean users can understand the website owner's ideas easier, and they can follow your product purchasing e-commerce website flow more accurate. So, the call center people would not waste a lot of time by asking each one of customers to provide again the products they want to buy, or the personal information they need for shipping. The conflicts between the user pages and server as well as missing saving data fields cause inconveniences. Deeply, people who are working in the following steps are dependent on previous steps, however, working on any step should have been done before going on to the next step can be done to have more chance and time to improve the website functions, so every worker will not be stress and have too little time for working on mistakes (Garrett, 2011, p. 24). Therefore, the website owner would give time to put greater new helpful functions and be proactive in finding out the errors before users have a chance to make any mistakes.

Addition, having a perfect UX will make users feeling good on surfing on websites and give satisfaction on the products. In case of Amazon, the largest online retailer website, they lost many profits and their users due to asking the users to fill in the registration form then login before buying products (Baru, 2017, p. 382). Baru (2017) also claimed that “a user has a limited capacity to which he can understand or process any information. That amount of information which a user can process at any time is the cognitive load. This helps to prevent overloading the user with information beyond what is necessary” (p. 381). Indeed, time is money so that users expect to get the good quality values with every minute they spent on the website “… quality of information as perceived by readers can be promoted by increased adequacy of information…” (Gabor & Paul, 2016, p. 1567). If they are frustrated or waste too much time on the processing of purchasing but getting the low-quality of value or bad experience they would abandon, purchase at midway or even give the worst feedback. “The solution designers came up with a simple solution of removing the register button and substituting with the continue button to proceed with the checkout and payment process. Alternatively, choice was provided for the users to register in case they wished to make their future purchases easier and faster” (Baru, 2017, p. 383). Furthermore, designing the websites for the customers, users who might have different thinking with the web-designers and quite diverse but they are going to like and use what the web-developers create. So, conducting some researches are needed to understand who the users are and what they need (Garrett, 2011, p. 45). Then creating the websites which had planned and user insights so that they can have whatever they want and see whenever they need.

Being the owner or project manager, they might usually focus on how the customers and users like what they have and love what they have done through the websites. However, to have those there are these steps needed to have done first such as ideas, strategies, plans, team-working, working-hard, time and so on. Inside of these steps, the project manager could have been thinking about how to reduce supporters for the unimportant little things to the purchasing process system in the future, and how to maintain the costs to the operation of the system. So, Garrett (2011) has claimed that “… deliberate design decisions will cost you time in the short term, but they will save you much more time in the long term...” (p. 160). It also means that if working on going from first to end step by sustainable co-operation the people who are going to work on next steps would save time to be trained and they can concentrate on their strength to dedicate all that they have had. Therefore, every fee of the unnecessary processes will be optimised and the owner could reduce the launching system fee and upgrade the system easily since having the best processing, and the high-performance working team. Further, the company could be scaled up to that it is supposed to be.

Summary, we would achieve the productivity improvement, the pleasing of user improved. Then we could have the fitted number of people in our process with the high quality of work and the more important is we could optimize the costs for operating our system. Those are the results of spending time on optimizing system, working on the best planes and having the perfect User Experience design. It is not the only way but it is a good way that we want to go further, and it is the way that we want to be bigger. According to African Proverb, “if you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together”.

## References
Baru, P. (2017). Evaluation of user experience and its economics in e-commerce. *International Journal of Scientific & Technology Research, 06(10), 380-384.* Retrieved from https://doaj.org/article/decc6f0f5ca64c50a0f47059a786291e

Gabor, A., & Paul, S. (2016). Testing a model of user-experience with news websites. *Journal of the Association for Information Science & Technology, 67(7), 1555-1575. Doi: 10.1002/asi.23462*

Garrett, J. (2011). *The elements of user experience: User-centered design for the web and beyond (2nd ed.).* Berkeley, CA: New Riders.

Sutcliffea, A., & Hartb, J. (2017). Analyzing the role of interactivity in user experience. *International Journal of Human-Computer Interaction, 33(3), 229-240.* Retrieved from http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10447318.2016.1239797 